whitepaper: clarify transfer completion caveat in 0003_token_bridge.md (#2209)
wormhole-foundation/wormhole: whitepapers/0003_token_bridge.md

## Caveats

### Transfer completion
A user who initiated a transfer should call `completeTransfer` within 24 hours. Guardian Sets are guaranteed to be valid for at least 24 hours. If the user waits longer, it could be that the Guardian Set has changed between the time where the transfer was initiated and the the time the user attempts to redeem the VAA. Let's call the Guardian Set at the time of signing `setA` and the Guardian Set at the time of redeeming on the target chain `setB`.

If `setA != setB` and more than 24 hours have passed, there are multiple options for still redeeming the VAA on the target chain:

> 1. The Guardians that signed the VAA may still be part of `setB`. In this case, the VAA meerly needs to be modified to have the new Guardian Set Index and it will be a valid VAA that can be redeemed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The Guardians that signed the VAA may still be part of `setB`. In this case, the VAA merely needs to be modified to have the new Guardian Set Index along with any `setA` only guardian signatures removed to make a valid VAA. The updated VAA can then be be redeemed. The typescript sdk includes a `repairVaa()` function to perform this automatically.
```

If a redeem fails due to a `guardian set expired` error, the only process to repair it is:

* Determine what guardians were removed: `to_remove = setA.difference(setB)`
* Ensure that >= quorum + 1 guardians signed the VAA that are not only in `setA` (13 out of 19)
* Fix the raw VAA so it is valid:
  * Remove the old Guardian Set Index only signatures from the VAA in `to_remove`
  * Update the Guardian Set Index to the latest
* Manually redeem the VAA (e.g. the advanced redeem workflow in portal where you paste the raw bytes or a direct smart contract call)

These two functions are what do it:
https://github.com/wormhole-foundation/wormhole/blob/f41eebe0b305f2d5fc07e73694197561a9deb114/sdk/js/src/utils/repairVaa.ts#L44-L115

Perhaps at some point one of the wormhole contributors will hook at sdk function up to the example ui or front ends such as portal bridge so that it can be automated for guardian set expired errors.

> 1. The Guardians that signed the VAA may still be part of `setB`. In this case, the VAA merely needs to be modified to have the new Guardian Set Index along with any `setA` only guardian signatures removed to make a valid VAA. The updated VAA can then be be redeemed. The typescript sdk includes a [`repairVaa()`](../sdk/js/src/utils/repairVaa.ts) function to perform this automatically.

Reviewer 2: could be clearer in that they still need to have a quorum

Author: clarified.

> 2. The intersection between `setA` and `setB` is greater than 2/3 of `setB`, but not all signatures of the VAA are from Guardians in `setB`. Then it may be possible to gather signatures from the other Guardians from historic gossip network observations, and replace now-invalid signatures with those.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I'm not fully sure about this, but think 1 and 2 here are the same thing. Also, I'm not sure how a guardian would gather historic gossip network observations, via a pcap or something? This seems incorrect.

Author: Guardians today aren't doing that, but I think the wormhole explorer for example will.

Reviewer: What exactly is the wormhole explorer going to be doing here? Taking VAAs with an expired guardian set index and presenting them somehow to the user (as raw bytes I'd assume) so they can redeem them?

Apologies if I'm being dense here, but this doesn't make sense to me at all.

Author: I added the reference to the wormholescan API which now exists. That should clarify it.

> 3. Guardians may elect to do the above automatically and make those updated VAAs available for users over the public RPC.

Reviewer: What exactly does this mean? All VAAs are available via public RPC. This is how front-ends can tell a VAA is available to be redeemed. I don't think anyone currently does this automatically so this entry should be removed.
```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Yeah I guess so. It just seems a bit hand wavy and superfluous. I like keeping that kind of stuff out of design docs, but your call.

Author: Removed this point since it was decided to not implement this feature

> 4. A Guardian may send a re-observation request to all other Guardians, causing the old message to be re-observed and a new VAA to be generated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. A Guardian may send a signed re-observation request to the network using the `send-observation-request` admin command. A new valid VAA with an updated Guardian Set Index is generated once enough Guardians have re-observed the old message.
```
